---
title: Sunday Laws, "Disturbance," and "Nuisance"
author: James T. Ringgold
date: 1897-03-04
publication: American Sentinel
volume: 12
issue: 9
attribution: explicit
principles:
- The Sabbath Question
- Limits of Civil Authority
applications:
- Sunday Legislation
- Religious vs Civil Law
keywords:
- nuisance
- disturbance
- religious exercises
- Baltimore Bar
- Brownist
---

*By James T. Ringgold, of the Baltimore Bar.*

THERE is a general agreement about loud noises, bad odors, explosives, etc., etc., as nuisances, because they interfere with physical comfort or safety. And so the law embodies a *consensus* that, for physical reasons, having regard to a change in physical conditions, some things may be branded as nuisances both by civil and criminal law if done at night, which would not be so if done by day. But in the case of all these things, the standard of damages is the same for all classes of persons. Bad odors are frequently more objectionable to one person than to another; loud noises are distracting to some, matters of indifference to others; the proximity of explosives will alarm many, while a few will laugh at their terror. Of all these varying dispositions, these grades of emotional sensitiveness, the law takes no notice, because, as said, to measure and judge of them is beyond its power.

Applying this principle to injuries to religious emotions or sentiments, we see at once that they are beyond the reach of law. There are Christians whose religious sentiments are shocked by the erection of a Jewish synagogue, and even more so by the building of a church for any other denomination of Christians than their own. But the law has no balm for their wounds. And the want of this general *consensus* respecting religious exercises, even if it were possible for the law to determine what are such, and even if their requirement of special police conditions were conceded, is an all-sufficient reason for the law's declining to give them greater consideration than it gives to exercises of any other sort.

At present there are many who say that all religious exercises are a sheer waste of time. There have always been thousands who have considered that unless the exercises are conducted under certain auspices, they are considerably worse than a sheer waste of time. Between these varying opinions the law has neither the jurisdiction nor the means to decide; and therefore it confines itself to "keeping the peace" at all times, and allowing every citizen to indulge at all times in any sort of exercise not incompatible therewith, and to call it religious or by any other name according to his own will. Now, as already observed, the courts never miss the point in this connection except when they come to deal with Sunday laws. But the principle is just as applicable to Sunday laws as anywhere else. And its result when applied to these laws is to prove that they cannot be sustained as measures for the protection of religious exercises.

But, in truth, the construction judicially given to the Sunday laws when they are sustained on religious grounds refutes the assumption that they have any necessary connection with the question of religious meetings or private or domestic religious exercises. Of course, if their object were to provide certain police conditions required for such meetings or exercises, the fact that no such meeting was going on in the neighborhood, or was actually interfered with, and that no such exercises on the part of any person were interrupted, would be a conclusive defense for the doing of an act on Sunday which might be done on other days. But the irrelevancy of the question whether meetings or exercises have really been interfered with by Sunday activity, is judicially settled by the view taken of the nature of that right which Sunday laws are held necessary to protect, and of the disturbance against which they are designed to guard.

One of the definitions of "to disturb" given by Webster is, "to agitate the mind," and he adds that the mind is disturbed by envy. This is an excellent illustration for the purpose. A mere emotion may disturb,—no sensation or perception of any kind is necessary. Whatever tends to awaken or kindle that emotion is the producer of a disturbance. The voluntary Sunday idler is thus disturbed by another's Sunday work, though he neither sees nor hears it. It weighs down his mind if he knows that it is going on. This knowledge arouses in him an emotion which it must be admitted is inconsistent with his use of the day for religious profit, being ninety per cent. pure malice. The disturbance done to him we are told—and rightly told in the last citation—grows out of his conviction that for another person to work on Sunday is "a breach of God's law and a violation of the party's own religious duty."—*William's Case, 4 Ire., 400.*

And it is evident that the disturbance produced by the conviction that a party is guilty of such conduct beyond the reach of the Brownist's sight or hearing is quite as great when he is not engaged in any religious exercises, alone or in company, as when his "services" are actually in progress. Nay, it must be the greater when he is otherwise altogether unoccupied, because then he is able to concentrate his whole energies on the reflection that, at the other end of the town, say, somebody is doing what the Brownist does not think he ought to do on Sunday. And this reflection cannot be otherwise than disquieting to a Brownist, the vital essence of whose mental life is the fixed belief that it is his business to set other people straight, and the feeling that the dignity and authority of Deity itself are insulted and defied by the perverse people who decline to be set straight according to the gospel of the Brownist.

Plainly enough, it is the disturbance *of himself* by this disquieting reflection which the Brownist voluntary idler wants a Sunday law to prevent. But we must not omit to notice an ingenious attempt to establish the position that the real purpose of the law is to prevent the disturbance of the non-Brownist involuntary idler. The words, "to the disturbance of others," are added to the prohibitions of work and labor in some of the statutes. They first appeared in the New Hampshire Sunday law. In construing them, the court adhered rigidly to the religious view of the statute, but adopted an entirely new view of its purpose. It considered that the object of compulsory Sunday idleness was not the spiritual betterment of the reluctant idler, nor the prevention of his interference with voluntary idlers in their religious exercises, nor yet the relief of their minds from the harrowing thought that somebody might be at work somewhere. At least it ignored these aspects of the subject altogether, and enunciated the proposition that the real protegée of the Sunday law is one compulsory idler whom another may "discurb" in his idleness, even with his perfect acquiescence!

The court held that it was "safe" to give the word disturbance a "comprehensive meaning;" and that the fact that people willingly submitted to, and took part in, a thing did not make it non-disturbing to the party himself; or, in other words, that a man may be disturbed by doing what he wants to do! The court then went on to say that the object of the statute was to prevent the distracting of people from religious observance, and that "nothing should be tolerated that tends to defeat it." And on the basis of this construction of the law it set aside a contract to buy a horse, because the vendee was disturbed by the offer, which he willingly discussed; because a witness whom the vendee took with him to the conference was disturbed, though he went along willingly enough; and because the wife of one of the parties was disturbed, as was proven by the fact that while the transaction was in process of consummation, she sat in the room reading a newspaper!—Varney vs. French, 19 N. H., 233.

And, later, "disturbance" was said to consist in "acts calculated to turn the attention of those who are present from their appropriate religious duties to matters of merely worldly concern," which evidently makes it a breach of the Sunday law to address a remark to a man on any other than religious topics, such, for example, as the state of the weather; and, accordingly, it was held that executing a will in the presence of others, disturbed them; for, the court said, "if business has been transacted of a secular character, and not within the exceptions, and in which two or more persons have taken a part, the disturbance is a conclusion of law."—George vs. George, 47 N. H. 27; see also Thompson vs. Williams, 58 La., 248.

But common sense shows us that all this is uncommon nonsense. The question whether a man is "disturbed" or not by the conduct of another, is so evidently a matter altogether within the man's own breast that the logical maxim of the law is volenti non fit injuria,—that is to say, What a man willingly put up with, entitles him to no damages at law, gives him no disturbance of which the law can take cognizance. And this logical maxim is always respected and applied by the courts, save in the matter of Sunday laws, wherewith, indeed, logic has nothing whatever to do.

But the Brownist is logical enough when he is intellectually honest with himself. And then he knows full well that when he swears out a warrant against A on the ground that the latter has disturbed B by doing business with him on Sunday, he is seeking to have A punished, not for any disturbance done to B, because in fact there was none; but he is seeking to have A punished because of his knowledge that the business was done on Sunday, though he neither saw nor heard anything of it, and did not even know of its being done till long after the Sunday of its doing was over. This it is that "disturbs" the Brownist's soul to that degree that only the fining of A by the magistrate, can restore its equilibrium. And it has been shown that with the matter of soul-equilibrium American law has and can have nothing to do.

. . . It will not fail to strike the candid reader that there is something curious and suspicious about the very mention of religion in connection with the judicial consideration of an American statute. That American judges should be found recognizing the true character of Sunday laws, as civil embodiments of a religious dogma, and sustaining them on that very ground, is only one among many illustrations of Macaulay's remark that "man is such an inconsistent creature that it is impossible to reason from his belief to his conduct, or from any one part of his belief to another."
