---
title: "The National Religious Liberty Association and the Tennessee Persecutions"
author: "A. F. Ballenger"
author_short: "AFB"
date: 1893-03-09
publication: "American Sentinel"
volume: 8
issue: 10
attribution: "explicit"

principles:
  - "Religious Liberty"
  - "Persecution"

applications:
  - "Legal Persecution"
  - "Sunday Legislation"
  - "Fines and Imprisonment"

keywords:
  - National Religious Liberty Association
  - Battle Creek
  - Tennessee
  - Henry County
  - Paris
  - William Dorich
  - R. M. King
  - chain-gang
  - J. H. Dortch
  - J. T. Ringgold
  - W. L. Carter
  - Ex-Governor Porter
  - Ex-Senator Tolley
  - Ministerial Association
  - Memphis
---

[The fourth annual session of the National Religious Liberty Association was held at Battle Creek, Mich., on February 30; there were one hundred and fifty-five delegates representing thirty States and Territories. The following is an extract from remarks of A. F. Ballenger, Secretary of the Association, in reference to the Tennessee prosecutions.]

An early as 1886, there was the imprisonment of Wm. Dorich, the father of Wm. Dorich Jr., who was on trial at this term of the court, W. H. Parker and James Stem. These three Seventh-day Adventists were incarcerated in the Paris jail for two months, in the summer of 1886. A camp-meeting was held at Paris the same year, and the sheriff accompanied the brethren from the jail every morning to the camp-ground, stayed with them in the same seat through the services, and at night returned with them to the jail. Elder E. W. Farnsworth spoke one Sunday evening on the subject of the United States in prophecy, and when he came to the point where this Government was to become a persecuting power, he pointed to these three men before him in the custody of the sheriff, and it made a deep impression, not only upon their own people, but strangers were affected, and the sheriff himself.

Following this, we have the case of R. M. King which, I think, began in the year 1889. He was first brought before the magistrate and fined $3, and costs, amounting to $12.85, for doing farm work on Sunday. This fine he paid. He was then indicted before the Grand Jury in Union County, for working upon this same Sunday and other Sundays. The case was tried, and he was found guilty, and fined $75, and costs. The case was then appealed to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee, and the decision was there affirmed. The case was next appealed to the United States Circuit Court, and again the decision of the lower courts were suspended. The case was next appealed to the United States Supreme Court, and it was on the docket when Mr. King died, thus bringing the case to an end. During the time the case was being tried in the courts, there was little or no persecution, as the people were awaiting the results of this case; but, when it was finally learned that the United States Circuit Court had decided against him, and that he had died before the United States Supreme Court could review the decision of the lower courts, persecution began again.

I might, however, notice the connection of the churches of Tennessee with this case of prosecution. When the case came before the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee, the prosecuting attorney failed to appear, and was telegraphed for, but he failed to come. The governor of the State was telegraphed that the case was pending. The Ministerial Association of the city of Memphis, Tenn., hearing of this, hastily called a meeting and passed resolutions at that meeting to employ counsel to prosecute Mr. King. If this case had gone before the Supreme Court of the United States, and been decided against him, those who were longing to prosecute would have seen in it the indorsement of the Federal Court, and would have brought the reverest persecutions, not only in Tennessee, but elsewhere. Mr. King's death brought the case to an end. And we have since learned, by decisions of the United States Supreme Court, what would have been the action of that court, had they reviewed the case.

Following this five more Seventh-day Adventists, this time in Henry County, were indicted. They were J. H. Dortch, J. Moon, S. M. Lowry, James Stem and W. D. Ward. The first four were convicted. They employed no lawyers, believing that it was of no use, and believing the scriptures where the Lord promises to speak through his people when they are brought before magistrates. They appeared for themselves, and they were convicted; refusing to pay their fines, they were placed in the prison there at Paris. The people soon got tired of boarding them in the Paris jail, and so, an effort was made to work them, and finally an old law was resurrected, by which they discovered that the Paris jail was a county work-house; then they were placed in the chain-gang and worked, but only for a few days, as their time had nearly expired. I think three of them were in jail over the Sabbath, and an effort was made to work them on the Sabbath, and a resolution to that effect passed the board, but the sheriff refused to act in the matter; he said: "Gentlemen, if you undertake to work these men on Saturday, I will have nothing whatever to do with the matter," and his earnest effort in their behalf saved them from the experience of an attempt to force them to work on the Sabbath. They were then told that it would go harder with them if they persisted; and so, when they came to trial this time, not only the jail and the chain-gang stared them in the face, but also the possibility that the severest punishment might be inflicted to compel them to work on the Sabbath; but they did not flinch.

During the time that intervened between the trials of these—the last prosecutions—and the recent arrests, the National Religious Liberty Association-sents from its office more than three hundred thousand pages of literature to the State of Tennessee, direct to ministers; almost an equal amount has been shipped to Tennessee, and distributed by other methods. After the Springville meeting, those present who did not go out to canvass in distant parts of the State, mounted their horses, filled their saddle-bags with religious liberty literature, and went all over that county, leaving this literature and these pamphlets in the homes of the people.

Paris was also canvassed just before the trial; every lawyer in Tennessee has had "Due Process of Law and Divine Right of Dissent," "Religious Intolerance in the Republic." Every newspaper in Tennessee has had the tract, "In the Chain-gang for Conscience'Sake," "Due Process of Law and Divine Right of Dissent," and "Religious Intolerance in the Republic." Every Baptist minister in Tennessee has had the same, every Lutheran minister, and every Unitarian minister, has had the same matter, and I believe it has had a great effect. [Voice: "Did not the attorney general ask them if they had been affected by the literature that had been distributed in Tennessee?"] Yes, they questioned the witnesses, and also the jury on that point.

Not only did they attempt to get the men this time, but they attempted to indict women, and asked the boys who were before the Grand Jury whether they had seen their sisters or mothers working on Sunday. The prosecuting attorney said that they proposed to arrest every man, woman and child of the Seventh-day Adventists, if it became necessary in order to put a stop to this work on Sunday.

I read you now a copy of the indictment:—

STATE OF TENNESSEE, } Circuit Court, September Term, A. D. 1892.

HENRY COUNTY. }

The Grand Jurors of the State of Tennessee, elected, impaneled, sworn and charged to inquire of and for the body of the County of Henry, in the State aforesaid, upon their oath, find that Billy Dortch, late of said County, labored heretofore, to wit: on the eighteenth day of September 1892, that day being Sunday, and divers other Sundays next before that date and up to the taking of this inquisition, in the County of Henry aforesaid, then and there unlawfully, openly, publicly, notoriously and unnecessarily did engage in his secular business, and did perform and follow his common avocations of life on Sundays, by working on the farm, ploughing, harrowing, hoeing, pulling fodder and doing various and divers others kinds of work on Sundays, said work not being necessary or a matter of charity, and it was and it is to the great annoyance and disturbance of the people, to the evil example of society, prejudicial to public morale, and a public nuisance to the citizens of the County, and against the peace and dignity of the State.
J. W. LEWIS, ATTY GER.

And the Grand Jury aforesaid, upon their oaths aforesaid, do further present that said Billy Dortch on the day and dates aforesaid, in the State and County aforesaid, and in the manner and form aforesaid, was guilty of a nuisance, by said workings on Sundays to the prejudice of society and against the peace and dignity of the State.
J. W. LEWIS, ATTY. GER.

The following persons were indicted, in accordance with this indictment, Wm. Dortch, T. F. Dortch, J. H. Dortch, W. D. Ward, S. W. Lowry, Jas. Stem, Drew Fitch, ——Bullman, ——Finch, J. Finch, Joe Parker, ——Wilson, Frank Stem, ——Moon (no name attached), Jim Parker, and many other parties whose names to the jury are unknown.

We met, at Paris, Mr. J. T. Ringgold, of Baltimore, and those who were indicted, and introduced Mr. Ringgold to them. A local reporter telegraphed through the country that three hundred Seventh-day Adventists had arrived from Wisconsin, Michigan and Illinois, and were swarming the hotels and court room, waiting for the trials of their brethren.

We gathered in a room in the hotel to talk over the situation, and Mr. Ringgold was surprised to find the brethren so perfectly willing to go to jail or into the chain-gang if this proved to be the result of their trials. Afterwards, he remarked to me: "I have never had clients before who were willing that I should win or lose their cases; who were perfectly satisfied to have their cases go either for or against them." We explained to Mr. Ringgold that we had decided to employ no more lawyers in the cases, but had hoped that the Lord would put it into the heart of some lawyer to interest himself in these persecutions, in which case the work would be done from a love of the principle involved and not from mercenary motives. We frankly told him that we believed that the Lord was using him in this way, and while he in his humility disclaimed such an exalted mission, he expressed himself anxious to defend our brethren to the best of his ability.

[Voice: "How did this happen?"] It came about in this way. He wrote a book on the subject of Sunday laws, and came out on the right side of the question. A. O. Tait, Corresponding Secretary of the Association, learned that such a book was published and wrote to Mr. Ringgold for a copy, and that was the commencement of the interest that Mr. Ringgold has maintained toward the Seventh-day Adventists, and of their interest in him. When he learned of the recent persecutions he offered to plead their case without charge. Mr. Ringgold requested us to engage a local attorney to aid him in the peculiar law practice of Tennessee. So we employed Mr. W. L. Carter of the place, who while justice of the peace, refused to hear the Sunday cases against the Seventh-day Adventists.

At the last trial before this the prosecution had prepared for a fight, but when they discovered that the brethren had no counsel, the wind was completely taken out of their sails. It was a severe shock to them. But at this trial they did not expect that counsel would appear, and hence the indictments were drawn up recklessly; but our attorneys put on their legal spectacles and discovered that the indictments were worthless. This was another great shock to the prosecution. Then of course they thought we would have no friends; but there sat behind our counsel Ex-Senator Tolley and Ex-Governor Porter. The prosecuting attorney was very much depressed when he found that Ex-Governor Porter was against him, as he is one of his warmest political friends.

[Voice:—"How did the Governor happen to be there?"] We had invited Ex-Senator Tolley to be present and witness with his own eyes the trials. He had been very much interested in these cases, and has read the SENTINEL for four years. The SENTINEL was sent to him when he was in the Senate, and after his term expired, he subscribed for it. On his arrival at Paris, he called on his old political friend, Ex-Governor Porter, and told him of the trials just about to come off. As a result of this conversation, the Governor declared his willingness to appear for the defendants without remuneration.

When the case of William Dortch came up for trial, among the witnesses who went up to be sworn was little Ambrose Dortch, only ten years' old. The judge spied him out, and asked the prosecuting attorney if that little boy had been summoned as a witness. The attorney, who evidently had not expected so many distinguished spectators to witness these medieval persecutions, appeared ashamed and said he did not care to have him sworn, and that he could step aside. Mr. Ringgold and Mr. Carter arose and stated that he was summoned as a witness, to which Mr. Lewis made no reply. Silence was golden. The little boy took his seat, inasmuch as the prosecuting attorney had no use for him.

Two of the neighbors' boys were put on the stand, and testified to having seen the defendant working in his garden on Sunday. Wm. Dortch is a singing teacher. They had gone to the church expecting to find him there, but not finding him, they rode down to his house, where they found him at work in his garden. The boys had probably unintentionally mentioned the fact to others, and from this were forced unwillingly to testify against their neighbor. These two were the only witnesses outside of the Seventh-day Adventist church whom the State brought. A rather amusing incident occurred during the questioning of the witness by the prosecution. The attorney questioned with the view of bringing out the fact that the work was done near a church on Sunday. Mr. Ringgold, who was listening intently, heard a quiet remark by the witness, and immediately interrupted with the query, "You said that was near a church, didn't you?" "Yes." "What church was it?" "The Seventh-day Adventist." Turning to the judge, Mr. Ringgold remarked, "I wished simply to bring out the fact, Your Honor, that it was our church near which the defendant was working."

The next witness was John Dortch, brother of the defendant. He testified to having seen him pile chunks in his back field. And, by the way, not a man on trial lived on the public road, and their farms could be reached only by means of private roads. When the prosecuting attorney discovered that he could make no case against the defendants, he called for Ambrose Dortch, the little boy again. After questioning him regarding the nature of an oath the judge said he would regard him incompetent to testify, and that he might stand aside. The little fellow, who, by the way, was bright and smiling, stepped back and took a seat on his uncle's knee. This incident had the effect to bring out the true prosecuting nature of these prosecutions as nothing else could. Think of a child being ordered by the State to testify that the work of his father disturbed him to the extent of constituting a public nuisance!

The witnesses having been disposed of, the speech of the prosecution was in order. You understand that the prosecution has the opening and closing speeches. The prosecuting attorney, however, remarked to the judge that he had nothing to say, that the case might go to the counsel for the defendants. Mr. Ringgold then presented a series of recommendations to the judge for instruction to the jury, and was followed by Mr. Carter. Mr. Carter studies a very pertinent allusion to the real spirit of the case, that is with reference to the point of disturbance. He said: "These men have disturbed no man by their work. No man has been found to testify to a disturbance. My friend here, the attorney general, has his horse hitched up and is driven to the station on Sunday, and it disturbs no one. And even His Honor, when he came to this place to hold court, remained at home with his family until the last moments, and then took the train on Sunday. It was not held as a disturbance to any one."

At this point the judge was seen to wince a little. Notwithstanding all this, the prosecuting attorney made a frantic effort to convict these men. He undertook to grow eloquent about the morality of the people of Tennessee, and how the Sabbath must be maintained, and that according to Holy Writ, etc. But when he struck Holy Writ, Mr. Ringgold was on his feet in an instant, and said, "Your Honor, I object. Holy Writ does not come into this case. It is a civil trial, and these men are indicted for a civil offense." The judge sustained the objection, and for the first time in the history of the trials of this people in Tennessee the cases were removed from a religious to a civil basis.

At the close of the attorney's appeal, court adjourned for one hour for dinner. Immediately after the judge's charge to the jury after court had again convened, and before the jury had left their seats, the prosecuting attorney arose and remarked, "If Your Honor please, the State confesses a verdict of not guilty." The judge immediately remarked, "Gentlemen of the jury, with your consent I will enter a verdict of not guilty." The jury nodded assent, and the trial of Wm. Dortch was at an end. He was too late, however, in confessing a verdict of not guilty, for the spectators plainly saw that he exhausted all his sources of evidence in the attempt to convict. I might mention one interesting point with reference to these cases. Inasmuch as all but two of the witnesses were Seventh-day Adventists, they will draw out of the county funds for witness fees about eighty-five dollars. Mr. Ringgold, in commenting upon this feature at the dinner table in the presence of a number of lawyers and others remarked jocularly that the people of Tennessee ought to be indicted as a nuisance for furnishing money in this way to the Seventh-day Adventists for the support of their work.

Before passing further I will say that the case of Thomas Dortch was postponed till the next term of court. The prosecuting attorney knowing that this case would go as the others had, if it came to trial at that time, and realizing that the whole community was looking to him to sustain the Tennessee Sabbath, pleaded a continuance. He claimed that he had witnesses by whom he could prove the point of disturbance. It was shown to him and to the court by Mr. Carter and Mr. Ringgold that these very witnesses were members of the Seventh-day Adventist Church, and that it was not at all probable that he could prove his point; but as there was the merest hope that he could win the case by securing additional evidence and as he strongly desired the postponement, the judge granted a continuance.
