---
title: "The \"First Fruits of Imperialism\""
date: 1898-07-21
publication: "American Sentinel"
volume: 13
issue: 28
attribution: "editorial"
principles:
  - "Constitutional Principles"
  - "Limits of Civil Authority"
applications:
  - "Proper Role of Government"
keywords:
  - Hawaii
  - imperialism
  - territory
  - Congress
  - Constitution
  - Baltimore Sun
---

Now that Hawaii has become a part of United States territory, it is beginning to be realized that the acquisition is accompanied by some complicated and curious—not to say undesirable—results, growing out of the relation of such territory and its people to the Government, as determined by the decision of the judicial authority of the nation. It appears, in fact, that the present government of Hawaii, and that which must continue for an indefinite period of the future, under the authority of the United States, constitutes the most perfect type of absolute monarchy to be found anywhere in the civilized world. This is a rather startling thing to contemplate from the standpoint of the Declaration of Independence, of the Constitution, and of the national traditions handed down from the days of Washington and Jefferson; yet probably but few people in the land will be startled at it to-day. Some are, however, including the editor of the Baltimore Sun, who states some interesting facts concerning the situation in a late issue of that journal. As these are worthy of consideration by every American interested in the national welfare, we reproduce them here, as follows:—

"Now that Congress has declared the Hawaiian Islands to be 'a part of the territory of the United States and subject to the sovereign dominion thereof' the exact legal effect of that declaration becomes a matter of interest. As was pointed out, repeatedly, during the discussion of the annexation resolutions in the Senate, there is no precedent in our history for the proceedings taken in the case of Hawaii. Previous acquisitions of foreign territory by purchase, cession, and by annexation there have undoubtedly been. The only case of the annexation of an independent foreign State is that of Texas. Louisiana, Florida, California, Alaska, were all acquired as so many square miles of territory; acquired by purchase or cession from the previous owners. Texas, like Hawaii, was a sovereign and independent State, having an organized government and a separate national existence, which was extinguished by the fact of annexation and absorption into the American Union. Louisiana, Florida, California and Alaska had no such separate national existence, but were ceded by France, Spain, Mexico, and Russia, precisely as one individual might cede or deed a farm to another. Texas came into the Union as a sovereign State, and was admitted to all the privileges of statehood at once.

"The precedent of Texas, however, has not been followed in the case of Hawaii, nor was there any proposition made to Congress looking to the admission of the republic of Hawaii into the Union of States. On the contrary, it was freely admitted by some of the most earnest advocates of annexation, that Hawaii, although an independent nation, recognized by ourselves and by foreign powers as such, is not fit to become a member of this Union.

"The immediate effect, therefore, of annexation is that Hawaii ceases to be a State altogether. She is no longer an independent state, neither is she nor can she become without further action on the part of Congress one of the United States, a State of this Union. She is simply like Alaska, a dependency, a territorial possession, 'subject,' as declared in the annexation resolutions, 'to the sovereign dominion' of the United States, and to the operation of that clause of Article 4 of the Constitution, which authorizes Congress to dispose of and to make rules and regulations concerning the territory and other property of the United States. Moreover, this power of Congress, which is unrestricted by any further provisions in the Constitution, has been held to be an absolute, and, it may be said, a despotic power. Without reference to other and earlier decisions of the Federal courts upon this point, there is a recent decision of the United States Court of Appeals, sitting in the city of San Francisco, respecting the extent and nature of the legislative authority of Congress over the territory of Alaska, which strikingly illustrates this principle.

"The question which arose upon an appeal from the district judge in Alaska, was as to the power of Congress to subject the liquor traffic in that territory to executive regulation and restriction. Various objections were urged upon constitutional grounds to the act of Congress and to the executive orders issued under it, but are all disposed of in the following sweeping sentences of the opinion of the Court of Appeals:—

"The answer to these and the other like objections urged in the brief of counsel for defendant, is found in the now well-established doctrine that the territories of the United States are entirely subject to the legislative authority of Congress. They are not organized under the Constitution, nor subject to its complex distribution of the powers of government as the organic law, but are the creation, exclusively, of the legislative department, and subject to its supervision and control. The United States having rightfully acquired the territory, and being the only government which can impose laws upon them, have the entire dominion and sovereignty, national and municipal, federal and State."

"Under this full and comprehensive authority," the opinion goes on to state, "Congress may legislate in accordance with the needs of each locality and vary its regulations to meet the circumstances of the people, . . . in a territory, all the functions of government are within the legislative jurisdiction of Congress, and may be exercised through a local government, or directly, by such legislation as we have now under consideration."

"In accordance with this view of the unfettered and 'sovereign dominion' of Congress the annexation resolutions provide temporarily for the government of the Hawaiian Islands. 'Until Congress shall provide for the government of such islands all the civil, judicial, and military powers of the existing government in said islands shall be vested in such person or persons, and shall be exercised in such manner as the President of the United States shall direct, and the President shall have power to remove said officers and fill vacancies so occasioned.' In all but name Mr. McKinley is constituted by Congress King of Hawaii, with greater powers than Queen Liliuokalani or King Kamehameha ever possessed. The President may vest all the executive powers of government and all 'civil, military, and judicial powers,' in one person or in several. He may make anybody he pleases Pooh Bah of the islands, captain-general, governor, lord high chancellor, chief-justice, and everything else. The commissioners, whom, by the resolutions, the President is authorized to appoint, and has already appointed, are not clothed with any powers except those of suggestion and recommendation. 'They shall as soon as reasonably practicable recommend to Congress such legislation concerning the Hawaiian Islands as they shall deem necessary and proper.'

"Meanwhile, and until Congress shall otherwise determine, the municipal legislation of Hawaii, not inconsistent with the joint resolutions, nor contrary to the Constitution of the United States, and not enacted for the fulfillment of any of the treaties of the Hawaiian republic with foreign nations which the joint resolutions profess to abrogate and annul, is continued in force. The present Hawaiian legislature, of course, disappears. While there is no express declaration to that effect in the resolutions, it necessarily follows from the fact that all legislative authority over the islands in matters great or small, is by the act of annexation and absorption vested exclusively in Congress.

"It is clear that no legislative powers are given to the five commissioners, but only the power to recommend legislation to Congress.

"It would be an extreme construction of the power conferred upon the President to designate 'the person or persons' in whom the civil, judicial, and military powers exercised by the officers of the existing government shall be vested, to say that the President may appoint a legislature, as well as a court and a governor, and may unite all these functions in one 'person.' Still, as the United States Court of Appeals say in the Alaska case, acquired territory, such as Hawaii, is not subject to the Constitution, 'nor to its complex distribution of the powers of government as the organic law.' Executive orders may take the place of legislative acts. The provisional government of Hawaii as arranged for by a republican congress, appears to be the most perfect type of an absolute monarchy on the face of the earth. Hawaii has no constitutional status. It is the mere creation and offspring of legislative caprice, turned over, provisionally, to executive discretion to nurse, absolutely without legal restrictions or constitutional guides or safeguards of any kind or description. Is this the first fruit of imperialism?"
