---
title: "Military Glory and National Honor"
date: 1899-10-19
publication: "American Sentinel"
volume: 14
issue: 41
attribution: "explicit"
author: "John D. Bradley"
author_short: "JDB"

principles:
  - "Limits of Civil Authority"
  - "Constitutional Principles"

applications:
  - "Proper Role of Government"
  - "Rights of Conscience"

keywords:
  - military glory
  - national honor
  - William E. Channing
  - imperialism
  - Philippines
  - war
  - patriotism
  - justice
  - Brutus
  - Simeon and Levi
---

## Military Glory and National Honor.

BY JOHN D. BRADLEY.

William E. Channing spoke many things which it will be necessary to repeat many times because they are the living truth. On Jan. 25, 1835, he delivered a discourse on "War," and some of the thoughts then expressed by him are worthy of consideration at this time when military achievements are being so loudly applauded in this country, and when it is so widely assumed and contended that the honor of the American Government requires the conquest and subjugation of a foreign people.

Among Mr. Channing's remarks we find the following and shall take the liberty to emphasize portions of what we quote:

"At the present day, one of the chief incitements to war is to be found in false ideas of honor. Military prowess and military success are thought to shed peculiar glory on a people; and many, who are too wise to be intoxicated with these childish delusions, still imagine that the honor of a nation consists peculiarly in the spirit which repels injury, in sensibility to wrongs, and is therefore peculiarly committed to the keeping of the sword. . . .

"The idea of honor is associated with war. But to whom does the honor belong? If to any, certainly not to the mass of the people, but to those who are particularly engaged in it. The mass of the people who stay at home and hire others to fight,—who sleep in their warm beds, and hire others to sleep on the cold and damp earth,—who sit at their well-spread board, and hire others to take the chance of starving,—who nurse the slightest hurt in their own bodies, and hire others to expose themselves to mortal wounds and to linger in comfortless hospitals;—certainly this mass reap little honor from war; the honor belongs to those immediately engaged in it. Let me ask, then, What is the chief business of war? It is to destroy human life; to mangle the limbs; to gash and hew the body; to plunge the sword into the heart of a fellow creature; to strew the earth with bleeding frames, and to trample them under foot with horses' hoofs. It is to batter down and burn cities; to turn fruitful fields into deserts; to level the cottage of the peasant and the magnificent abode of opulence; to scourge nations with famine; to multiply widows and orphans. Are these honorable deeds? Were you called to name exploits worthy of demons, would you not naturally select such as these? Grant that a necessity for them may exist; it is a dreadful necessity, such as a good man must recoil from with instinctive horror; and though it may exempt them from guilt, it cannot turn them into glory. We have thought that it was honorable to heal, to save, to mitigate pain, to snatch the sick and sinking from the jaws of death. We have placed among the revered benefactors of the human race, the discoverers of arts which alleviate human sufferings, which prolong, comfort, adorn, and cheer human life; and if these arts be honorable, where is the glory of multiplying and aggravating tortures and death?

"It will be asked, Is it not honorable to serve one's country, and expose one's life in its cause? Yes, our country deserves love and service; and let her faithful friends, her loyal sons, who under the guidance of duty and disinterested zeal, have poured out their blood in her cause, live in the hearts of a grateful posterity. But who does not know, that this moral heroism is a very different thing from the common military spirit? Who is so simple as to believe that this all-sacrificing patriotism of principle is the motive which fills the ranks of war, and leads men to adopt the profession of arms? Does this sentiment reign in the common soldier, who enlists because driven from all other modes of support, and hires himself to be shot at for a few cents a day? Or does it reign in the officer, who, for pay and promotion, from the sense of reputation, or dread of disgrace, meets the foe with a fearless front? There is, indeed, a vulgar patriotism nourished by war. I mean that which burns to humble other nations, and to purchase for our own the exultation of triumph and superior force. But as for true patriotism, which has its root in benevolence, and which desires the real and enduring happiness of our country, nothing is more adverse to it than war, and no class of men have less of it than those engaged in war. . . . War, as now carried on, is certainly among the last vocations to be called honorable. . . .

"There are many persons who have little admiration of warlike achievements, and are generally inclined to peace, but who still imagine that the honor of a nation consists peculiarly in quickness to feel and repel injury, and who, consequently, when their country has been wronged, are too prone to rush into war. Perhaps its interests have been slightly touched, perhaps its well-being impertously demands continued peace. Still its honor is said to call for reparation, and no sacrifice is thought too costly to satisfy the claim. That national honor should be dear and guarded with jealous care, no man will deny; but in proportion as we exalt it, we should be anxious to know precisely what it means, lest we set up for our worship a false, unjust, merciless deity and instead of glory shall reap shame. I ask, then, In what does the honor of a nation consist? What are its chief elements or constituents? The common views of it are narrow and low. Every people should study it; and in proportion as we understand it, we shall learn that it has no tendency to precipitate nations into war. What, I ask again, is this national honor, from which no sacrifice must be withheld?

"The first element of a nation's honor is undoubtedly justice. A people, to deserve respect, must lay down the maxim, as the foundation of its intercourse with other communities, that justice,—a strict regard to the rights of other states,—shall take rank of its interests. A nation without reverence for right, can never plead in defense of a war, that this is needed to maintain its honor, for it has no honor to maintain. It bears a brand of infamy, which oceans of human blood cannot wash away. . . . A people systematically sacrificing justice to its interests, is essentially a band of robbers, and receives but the just punishment of its profligacy in the assaults of other nations. . . . The voice of justice is not always drowned by the importunities of interest; nor ought we, as citizens, to acquiesce in an injurious act, on the part of our rulers, towards other states, as if it were a matter of course, a necessary working of human selfishness. It ought to be reprobated as indignantly as the wrongs of private men. A people strictly just has an honor independent of opinion, and to which opinion must pay homage. Its glory is purer and more enduring than that of a thousand victories. Let not him who prefers for his country the renoun of military spirit and success to that of justice, talk of zeal for its honor. He does not know the meaning of the word. He belongs to a barbarous age, and desires for his country no higher praise than has been gained by many a savage horde. . . .

"No nation stands alone; and each is bound to consecrate its influence to the promotion of equitable, pacific, and beneficent relations among all countries, and to the diffusion of more liberal principles of intercourse and national law. This country is intrusted by God with a mission for humanity. Its office is to commend to all nations free institutions, as the sources of public prosperity and personal dignity; and I trust we desire to earn the thanks and honor of nations by fidelity to our trust. A people reckless of the interest of the world, and profligately selfish in its policy, incurs far deeper disgrace than by submission to wrongs; and whenever it is precipitated into war by its cupidity, its very victories become monuments of its guilt, and deserve the execration of present and coming times.

"It is the moral and intellectual progress of the people, to which the patriot should devote himself as the only dignity and safeguard of the State. How needed this truth! In all nations the people have imagined that they were gloryifying themselves by triumphing over foreign foes, whilst at home they have been denied every ennobling institution; have been trodden under foot by tyranny, defrauded of the most sacred rights of humanity, enslaved by superstition, buried in ignorance, and cut off from all the means of rising to the dignity of men. They have thought that they were exalting themselves, in fighting for the very despots who ground them in the dust. Such has been the common notion of national honor; nor is it yet effaced. How many among ourselves are unable to stifle their zeal for our honor as a people, who never spent a thought on the institutions and improvements which ennoble a community, and whose character and example degrade and taint their country as far as their influence extends?"

Woe unto the nation which seeks the honor that follows and is maintained by war and conquest! The American Republic does not need such honor. If the shedding of blood be a glorious occupation, and if honor belongeth unto the man of blood, then how "honorable" indeed were Brutus and his companions, and how mistaken, how deluded was the patriarch when in the earnestness of his soul he cried upon his death bed that his honor might not be united into the assembly of Simeon and Levi!

The American who imagines that there is honor in the repudiation of the principles of human liberty, and in the forcible domination and subjection to his "acknowledged and unquestioned authority" of human beings as good as himself, needs more than any thing else to have his moral sense revived. He does not know what honor is. Honor is not greed, and it is not unscrupulous ambition, and it is not moral cowardice. While it may be the case with some individuals, the world in general is not yet so blind, its moral sense is not yet so deadened, that it is likely to confuse honor with these things. Honor is inseparable from right; it can never be joined to wrong. Honor is the reward and companion of fidelity and integrity; it is not the ally and confederate of perfidy and iniquity. Honor is consonant with human rights, liberty, equality, and justice; it has no concord with force, aggression, and arbitrary domination. Honor is not afraid of humility; it is not afraid to acknowledge a wrong. Honor knows of but one way to rectify a wrong, and that is by acknowledging and forsaking it. Honor is not that moral cowardice which, because it is strong makes others suffer for its mistakes, and which seeks to drown its consciousness of guilt and of a loss of real honor in assaults upon weaker peoples—people who are desirous of living at peace with it and against whom it has not a shadow of a grievance. Honor knows that when it seems to humble itself that right may prevail that then it is truly maintained and exalted, then it shines forth bright in all the lustre of its native glory.

The republic which possesses true honor will not hasten to adopt the policies and methods of monarchists and despots; its knees will not smite each other at the thought of being termed "a weakling, unable to carry to successful completion the labors that great and high-spirited nations are eager to undertake;" it will not rectify its mistakes by forcing an indorsement of them from unwilling lips; it will not have the face to stand up in the world and to talk of its honor while multiplying and aggravating wrongs; it will know that the honor which is maintained by the suppression of human rights is an honor not distinguishable from infamy.

"Righteousness exalteth a nation; but sin is a reproach to any people."
